Here is an
introductory quote from the beginning of \cite{holland-92a}:

\begin{quote}
\index{Holland, J. H.}

Echo provides for the study of populations of evolving, reproducing
agents distributed over a geography with different inputs of renewable
resources at various sites. Each agent has simple capabilities ---
offense, defense, trading, and mate selection --- defined by a set of
``chromosomes''. Although these capabilities are simple and simply
defined, they provide for a rich set of variations that can get at the
essence of the central questions of complex adaptive systems described
above. The basic interactions---``combat'', ``trading'', and
``mating'' --- are meant to be idealized versions of more complex
interactions in real--world complex systems. Collections of agents can
exhibit analogues of a diverse range of phenomena resulting from these
basic interactions, including ecological phenomena (e.g., mimicry and
biological arms races), immune system responses (e.g., interactions
conditioned on identification), evolution of ``metazoans'' (e.g.,
emergent hierarchical organization), and economic phenomena (e.g.,
trading complexes and the evolution of ``money''). Thus, although the
system is couched in terms of the language of biological ecologies, it
is meant to be general enough to model phenomena in a number of areas.
This generality can help shed light on commonalities among phenomena
in these diverse areas.

\end{quote}



\index{Sites}
An Echo world consists of some number of sites, arranged in some
geography. Simple geographies include lines, rings and
two--dimensional arrays. The simplest possible world contains a single
site.

Any number of agents can exist at a single Echo site. The number will
depend on many factors, such as the richness of the site, the behaviors
of the agents at the site, site ``taxes'', and various probabilities
that are associated with the world and with the site.

\index{Resources}
Agents are composed of ``resources''. The world has a fixed number of
resource types. These are usually denoted by lower case letters
beginning with {\em a}. To say that agents are composed of resources
means that their genomes consist of strings of the resources. One
should feel free to draw analogies with DNA.

Sites produce resources, agents collect resources, fight for
resources, trade resources and return resources to the world when they
die (unless they are killed in combat, in which case the loser's
resources are taken by the winner). All interactions in the world
involve flows of resources.

There are three basic interactions in Echo worlds.

\begin{itemize}

\item Combat
\index{Combat}

\item Trade
\index{Trade}

\item Reproduction
\index{Reproduction}

\end{itemize}

